[André Filipe de Moraes Batista, Dr](http://lattes.cnpq.br/2015345575533420);
[Michel Silva Fornaciali, Dr](http://lattes.cnpq.br/5792124071429665).
Supercomputação. [Insper](https://github.com/Insper), 2023.

# Maximal Clique Analisys

The idea of a clique in a graph is relatively simple. At the most general level,
a clique is a subset of a network in which actors are closer to each other than
to other members of the network. In terms of friendship ties, for example, it is
not uncommon to find human groups that form cliques based on age, gender, race,
ethnicity, religion, ideology, and many other things. A clique is, therefore, a
set of vertices in a graph in which each pair of vertices is directly connected
by an edge.

Finding the maximum clique in a graph is a computationally challenging task due
to the combinatorial nature of the problem. The computational difficulty arises
from the need to explore all possible combinations of vertices to identify the
largest clique, which becomes exponential in relation to the number of vertices.
This results in high computational complexity, even for moderately large graphs.

The importance of studying cliques is notably present in the analysis of social
networks, where cliques represent cohesive groups of individuals who share
common interests, friendships or connections. Click identification helps to
understand the structure of a social network, identify influencers and affinity
groups, as well as assist in detecting communities and analyzing social
dynamics.

Cliques are important because in addition to developing homogeneous behaviors in
their members, they are, by definition, very close, increasing the speed of
exchanges. Thus, information aimed at one click is quickly absorbed by its
members, who tend to perceive it in a similar way. This is important, for
example, in segmentation strategies.

Therefore, efficiently solving the maximum clique problem has valuable
applications in areas ranging from computer science to social network data
analysis.

<p align="Right">
Batista & Fornaciali (translated)
</p>

## License
This project is [MIT licensed](LICENSE)!
